Welcome To ENVIS - Enviornmental Information System, Medicinal Plants in India
Home/Search
Ayurvedic identity
Shlokas
Help
Distribution Maps
Trade
About
About Database
About NMPB
About FRLHT
Statewise List
Karnataka
Kerala
Tamil Nadu
Andhra Pradesh
Chattisgarh
Odisha
Sikkim
Rajasthan
West Bengal
Maharashtra
Frequently Asked Questions
What is Ayurveda ?
Ayurveda is one of the oldest medical traditions in the world, with a  written history of more than three thousand years and has its roots in  the vedas.
The term “Ayurveda” means science of life, which derives  from two terms such as Ayu (life) and Veda (knowledge).
Based on this worldview Ayurveda understands universe (macrocosm) and  the being (microcosm) as created by five basic elements such as Prthivi  (earth), Jala (water), Agni (fire), Vayu (air), Akasa (space) in their  different permutations and combinations.
What is Siddha ?
"By purifying the mind and attaining perfection one  becomes a siddha (Tamil Chittan); He is indeed fit to be called SIVA".  Purification of the Body and mind is  the aim of Siddha medicine.
The  origin of Siddha  tradition in the South India in Tamil Language,  including culture, is traced back to Agastya. More than 5000 yrs old in  Indian history.  There are 18 siddhars (All the Siddhars taught their  principles along with their well experienced medicines to their  disciples under Gurugulavasa.).
What is Unani ?
Unani system of Medicine owes its origin to Greece. It was the Greek  philosopher - Physician Buqrat (Hippocrates) (460-377 BC) who freed  Medicine from the realm of superstition and magic, and gave it the  status of Science. The theoretical framework of Unani Medicine is based  on the teachings of Hippocrates. After a number of other Greek Scholars  enriched the system considerably. Of the Galen (131-210 AD) stands out  as the one who stabilized its foundation on which Arab physicians like  Rhazes (850-925 AD) and Avicenna (980-1037 AD) constructed an imposing  edifice.
What is Homeopathy ?
Homeopathy
(also spelled
homoeopathy
or
homœopathy
) is a   form of
alternative   medicine
, first proposed by German physician
Samuel Hahnemann
in   1796, in which practitioners use highly
[2]
[3]
diluted preparations.
Homeopathic
remedies
are prepared by
serial dilution
with   shaking by forceful striking, which homeopaths term
succussion,
after   each dilution under the assumption that this increases the effect. Homeopaths   call this process
potentization
. Dilution often continues until none of   the original substance remains.
[6]
Apart from the symptoms, homeopaths use aspects of the patient's physical and   psychological state in recommending
remedies
.
[7]
Homeopathic reference books known as
repertories
are then consulted, and   a
remedy
is selected based on the totality of symptoms.
What is Folk ?
Folk health traditions are location and community specific health related practices, customs, beliefs, rituals. They are an intergral and inseperable part of our life style. They are passed on from one generation to another through word of mouth.
About Us
|
Contact Us
|
Team
Last Updated on: 19th April 2017
Copyright © 2010 NMPB & FRLHT - All Rights Reserved.
This site is best viewed in Mozilla Firefox and Google Chrome
hacklink panel
bursa escort
izmit escort
ankara escort
bursa escort
tuzla escort
kocaeli escort
1xbet
antalya escort
adana escort
eskişehir escort
eskişehir escort
Cialis
izmir escort bayan
escort bayan izmir
fethiye escort
Viagra Tablet
antalya escort
antalya escort bayan
escort antalya
konyaaltı escort
antalya otele gelen escort